Hey guys welcome to Lecture 35.
This is gonna be about
Duplicates in DataFrames.
All right.
So import the usual.
NumPy is np.
Pandas as pd and then from pandas
we'll import Series and DataFrame.
All right, so let's go ahead and
make a data frame.
We'll call it dframe and we're gonna
make it with duplicates on purpose.
So we'll have data frame.
We're gonna pass a dictionary,
so we'll just say key one.
And then we'll have it be
let's say We'll pass A and
we'll have two instances of A.
And then we'll also add three
instances of B, how about that?
Whoops, that should be a comma.
And then we'll make A second key and
we'll pass just a list,
which is kind of the reverse.
So this is different ways of making it
a list key, so this instance I just
multiplied a by two to get AA and
then I added three Bs on top of that.
Here I just wrote out manually 2,
2, 2, 3, 3, 3.
Okay, and then let's go ahead and
show that data frame.
Nice, so we have key1, key2,
letter AA, and then BBB and
then key1 and key2, and
their values that match up.
So, how can we find duplicates?
It's actually really easy with pandas.
We can pass the term duplicated,
with no additional arguments and
it'll tell us if rows are duplicates.
So for instance,
that first row is gonna yield you a false
since it hasn't seen duplicate yet.
A2.
And then the second row, the index one
row, it's gonna say that it is duplicated
true because it's previous
row was also key1 A key2 2.
And if we look at the very last row,
B3, it's also
true duplicated because it's
the second instance of the B and 3 row.
So that's how you can find duplicates.
Let's say you wanted to get
rid of those duplicates.
You can drop them, and you can just
simply pass the method drop_duplicates
with no additional argument, and
it'll get rid of any duplicates it found.
So now we only have those false values
from before, the zero-index row,
and then the second and
third index row, zero, two, three.
And now we have those rows.
So we were able to drop the duplicates.
You can also filter out which
duplicates to drop by a single column.
The way to do that is again just
say dframe_drop_duplicates,
and you can pass the column name
that you want to drop from.
So now I drop duplicates specifically
from the key1 column, so
that means anything that was duplicate, as
far as the letters, has now been dropped.
So, anything that had an additional
A after the first one, or
an additional B after the first
B showed up, has been dropped.
So, you only end up being left
with the zero and two index rows.
So, that makes sense.
Let's go ahead and
show the original dframe.
All right, by default the first value
was taken for the duplicates, but
we can also take the last value instead.
To show you what I mean by that, we can
say dframe, let's bring this to center,
dframe.drop_duplicates we'll
pass it on key1.
So, if you notice last time,
we just took the first instance and
then dropped later duplicates.
Let's say, instead of doing that,
we wanted to take the very last duplicate.
So we can do that by saying,
passing the argument take_last=True.
So what do we expect to
happen in this case?
So that means the very last time,
since we're calling it by key1,
that it sees the duplicate it'll keep it.
So before we press enter,
let's go ahead and
try to imagine what the result's gonna be.
If we look at key1,
the last time an A shows up is in index 1,
so it's gonna keep that row.
And if we keep going down key1,
the last time a duplicate of B shows up
is at the fourth indexed row, so
we should expect rows 1 and 4 to be kept.
Since we're taking the last setting
equal to true, let's see if that works.
And that's what we got.
We got the first and fourth index rows.
Awesome.
So that's about it for finding duplicates.
It's pretty straightforward.
You just pass the method either
duplicated to find the Boolean value if
they're duplicates or not, and
you can just say drop_duplicates and
you can pass specific
columns as an argument.
And you can also pass take_last=True if
you wanna get the last duplicate value.
That's about it for duplicates.
Next up, we're gonna learn about mapping.
I'll see you there.